docs/content/contributing/index.md, before:

# Contributing Guidelines

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the {{ project_name }}. Whether it's a bug report, new feature, correction, or additional documentation, we greatly value feedback and contributions from our community.

Please read through this document before submitting any issues or pull requests to ensure we have all the necessary information to effectively respond to your bug report or contribution.

## Project Structure

The structure of this project is as follows:

```bash
├── docs                                  # Documentation 
├── packages                              # Packages
│   └── @cdklabs
│       ├── cdk-cicd-wrapper              # CDK CI/CD Wrapper Blueprint
│       └── cdk-cicd-wrapper-cli          # CLI tools to support the Blueprint
├── projenrc                              # Projen source
├── samples                               # Samples folder for demonstrating various aspects of the tool
├── .projenrc.ts                          # Projen file to manage project structure
├── CHANGELOG.md
├── CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
├── CONFIGVARS.md
├── CONTRIBUTING.md
├── LICENSE
├── NOTICE
├── OSS_License_Summary.csv
├── README.md
├── Taskfile.yml                          # Contains helpful tasks that are useful during development
├── bandit.yaml
├── licensecheck.json
├── package-verification.json
├── package.json
├── tsconfig.dev.json
├── tsconfig.json
└── yarn.lock
```

### **docs**

This is where the documentation site is defined and built.

### **packages**

This folder the sources are located


## Reporting Bugs/Feature Requests

We welcome you to use the GitHub issue tracker to report bugs or suggest features.

When filing an issue, please check existing open, or recently closed, issues to make sure somebody else hasn't already
reported the issue. Please try to include as much information as you can. Details like these are incredibly useful:

- A reproducible test case or series of steps
- The version of our code being used (semver)
- Any modifications you've made relevant to the bug
- Anything unusual about your environment or deployment

## Contributing via Pull Requests

Contributions via pull requests are much appreciated. Before sending us a pull request, please ensure that:

1. You are working against the latest source on the _main_ branch.
2. You check existing open, and recently merged, pull requests to make sure someone else hasn't addressed the problem already.
3. You open an issue to discuss any significant work - we would hate for your time to be wasted.

To send us a pull request, please:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Modify the source; please focus on the specific change you are contributing. If you also reformat all the code, it will be hard for us to focus on your change.
3. Run `task build` to ensure everything builds and tests correctly.
   > This will execute all necessary verification `verification`, `build`, `test`, `audit`.
4. Commit to your fork on a new branch using [conventional commit messages](#commits).
5. Send us a pull request, answering any default questions in the pull request template.
6. Pay attention to any automated CI failures reported in the pull request, and stay involved in the conversation.

GitHub provides additional documentation on [forking a repository](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) and
[creating a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request/).

#### Commit Messages

By default we have enabled the commit-msg hook via [husky](https://typicode.github.io/husky/) which comes installed by default when you first run `npm ci`. We are enforcing the convention described in [conventionalcommits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) by default for the commit messages to help make the collaboration between team members transparent and consistent. If your commit messages do not follow this convention, you won't be able to commit your changes from your local machine. Check the example below:
_WRONG COMMIT MESSAGE_

```bash
> git commit -m "foo: this will fail"

> cdk-cicd-wrapper@1.2.3 commitlint
> commitlint --edit

⧗   input: foo: this will fail
✖   type must be one of [build, chore, ci, docs, feat, fix, perf, refactor, revert, style, test] [type-enum]

✖   found 1 problems, 0 warnings
ⓘ   Get help: https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint/#what-is-commitlint

husky - commit-msg hook exited with code 1 (error)
```

_CORRECT COMMIT MESSAGE_

```bash
> git commit -m "docs: updated README.md with better instructions for the commit-msg hook"

> cdk-cicd-wrapper@1.2.3 commitlint
> commitlint --edit .git/COMMIT_EDITMSG

[feat/developer-tools 24192d7] docs: updated README.md with better instructions for the commit-msg hook
 1 file changed, 1 insertion(+), 1 deletion(-)
```

## Commits

This package utilizes [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) and as such all commit messages will need to adopt this format. A `commit-msg` hook is installed as part of this package to enforce correct commit message structure and will be run anytime a `git commit ...` is executed.

[Commitizen](https://github.com/commitizen/cz-cli) has been installed for your convenience which provides a guided UI
for committing changes. To commit your changes run the following commands:

```bash
git add -A # stage your changes
npx cz # launch commitizen
```

An interactive UI will be displayed which you can follow to get your change committed.

Package versioning is determined based on the semantic commit and as such it is very important this format is followed. A PR checker will also run to ensure the format of your commit message is compliant.

## Finding contributions to work on

Looking at the existing issues is a great way to find something to contribute on. As our projects, by default, use the default GitHub issue labels (enhancement/bug/duplicate/help wanted/invalid/question/wontfix), looking at any 'help wanted' issues is a great place to start.

## Code of Conduct

This project has adopted the [Amazon Open Source Code of Conduct](https://aws.github.io/code-of-conduct).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://aws.github.io/code-of-conduct-faq) or contact
opensource-codeofconduct@amazon.com with any additional questions or comments.

## Security issue notifications

If you discover a potential security issue in this project we ask that you notify AWS/Amazon Security via our [vulnerability reporting page](http://aws.amazon.com/security/vulnerability-reporting/). Please do **not** create a public github issue.

## Licensing

See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/cdklabs/cdk-cicd-wrapper/blob/main/LICENSE.md) file for our project's licensing. We will ask you to confirm the licensing of your contribution.

We may ask you to sign a [Contributor License Agreement (CLA)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contributor_License_Agreement) for larger changes.

## Working with documentation
The documentation for the CDK CI/CD Wrapper Core is stored under the docs/ (index file: index.md) and is designed to be viewed as an MkDocs html site. Before heading to the documentation we highly recommend you:

test
- Run the build docs script `task docs` using you UNIX cli
- Start the local mkdocs webserver to view locally the ConfigBuilder documentation site with the `task docs:local` command; the documentation will then be available at http://localhost:8000

## Testing Packages locally
This section explains how you can run local versions of the {{ project_name }} packages that you have made changes to.
You would typically do this when testing new features or fixes that you are trying to contribute to this project.

### Prerequisite
An AWS account available for testing with Administrator access.



### First steps

Configure the following environment variables.

|Name|Description|Required|Default|Example|CreateIfNotExisting|
|----|-----------|---|---|----|----|
|AWS_PROFILE|[AWS Profile](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkref/latest/guide/file-format.html#file-format-profile) to use for interacting with the AWS account. This profile is used to create an AWS CodeArtifact to host the {{ project_name }} packages, while the version is not publicly available. | true | | 123456789012 | false |
| DOMAIN     | AWS CodeArtifact Domain name to use     | true | cdk-cicd-wrapper | | true | 
| REPOSITORY | AWS CodeArtifact repository name to use | true | cdk-cicd-wrapper | | true |
| SECRET_ID  | AWS SecretManager Secret name to publish to login token. This token will be used by the {{ project_name }} pipeline to be able to pull the packages at the Synth stage. | true | cdk-cicd-wrapper | | true |

The values can be placed into a `.env` file in the root of the project as well, e.g:

```bash
AWS_PROFILE=my-aws-profile
DOMAIN=cdk-cicd-wrapper
REPOSITORY=cdk-cicd-wrapper
SECRET_ID=codeartifact-secret-id
```


### Checkout and initialize the code repository
You can clone the repository from [GitHub](https://github.com/cdklabs/cdk-cicd-wrapper/).

Execute the `task init` command.

### Publish the CDK CI/CD packages into AWS CodeArtifact

#### Login to CodeArtifact
It is highly recommended to set up a separate AWS CodeArtifact for testing and developing the {{ project_name }}.
With a single ```task codeartifact:login``` command you can login to the AWS CodeArtifact.
In case the AWS CodeArtifact Domain or Repository are not existing, then it creates it based on the provided DOMAIN, REPOSITORY.

The created AWS CodeArtifact Domain and Repository can be deleted with the `task codeartifact:repository:delete` command.

**Note**
The command might fail with message like `exit status 255` or similar. This means your AWS Session has expired.

#### Publish 
The {{ project_name }} packages can be publish with the `task codeartifact:publish` command.

This command unpublish the previous package in cases where the package version has not been changed.

### Use the packages from AWS CodeArtifact

The {{ project_name }} packages can be added to any CDK project from the AWS CodeArtifact with the `npm install --save @cdklabs/cdk-cicd-wrapper @cdklabs/cdk-cicd-wrapper-cli`. Then you can follow the [Getting Started](../getting_started/index.md) Guide.

### Use a sample app for development
The repository comes with a `samples` folder that host example projects to understand the benefit of the {{ project_name }}.

The available samples can be listed, with the `task samples:list` command.
Set the `SAMPLE_APP` environment variable name as the folder is called inside the sample folder.
Once you've selected a sample, that you'd like to use as baseline you need to then go ahead and initialize a project based on that running the following commands:

```bash
export SAMPLE_APP=cdk-ts-example;
task samples:dev:init
```
The last command creates the `development/project` temporarily folder and initialize the project with [Projen](https://projen.io/).

#### Configure environment variables for the sample application
The environment variables listed on the [Variables](../developer_guides/variables.md) page.
These variables can be included into the `.env` file in either the root or in the `development/project` folder.

The requirements for the samples projects can be different, so check the **README.md** file of the sample application for more details.

You can verify the detected configuration with the `task samples:dev:info`. This is recommended if you are managing multiple AWS accounts.


#### Bootstrap the accounts
The accounts must be bootstrapped prior to the first deployment.
You can execute it with the `task samples:dev:bootstrap`.

#### Update the cdk-cicd-wrapper libraries in the development
You can update the packages with the `task samples:dev:update` command that ensures the latest {{ project_name }} is used.


#### Deploy the pipeline to the account
You can deploy the pipelines from the development folder with the `task samples:dev:deploy` command. 

#### Push the sources of the sample application up to the generated repository AWS CodeCommit
You can push the changes made into the sample from the folder with the `task samples:dev:git:push`

#### Deploy workbench stacks
The workbench stacks can be deployed with the `task samples:dev:workbench:deploy`.

#### Do development iteration
You can test your changes in the {{ project_name }} simply with calling the `task samples:dev:loop`.

## FAQ

Commit message:

fix: contributors guide (#67)
* fix: the prerequisites for the contributors

* fix: package-verification.json

* fix: added missing prerequisite

docs/content/contributing/index.md, after:

# Contributing Guidelines

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the {{ project_name }}. Whether it's a bug report, new feature, correction, or additional documentation, we greatly value feedback and contributions from our community.

Please read through this document before submitting any issues or pull requests to ensure we have all the necessary information to effectively respond to your bug report or contribution.

## Project Structure

The structure of this project is as follows:

```bash
├── docs                                  # Documentation 
├── packages                              # Packages
│   └── @cdklabs
│       ├── cdk-cicd-wrapper              # CDK CI/CD Wrapper Blueprint
│       └── cdk-cicd-wrapper-cli          # CLI tools to support the Blueprint
├── projenrc                              # Projen source
├── samples                               # Samples folder for demonstrating various aspects of the tool
├── .projenrc.ts                          # Projen file to manage project structure
├── CHANGELOG.md
├── CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
├── CONFIGVARS.md
├── CONTRIBUTING.md
├── LICENSE
├── NOTICE
├── OSS_License_Summary.csv
├── README.md
├── Taskfile.yml                          # Contains helpful tasks that are useful during development
├── bandit.yaml
├── licensecheck.json
├── package-verification.json
├── package.json
├── tsconfig.dev.json
├── tsconfig.json
└── yarn.lock
```

### **docs**

This is where the documentation site is defined and built.

### **packages**

This folder the sources are located

## Reporting Bugs/Feature Requests

We welcome you to use the GitHub issue tracker to report bugs or suggest features.

When filing an issue, please check existing open, or recently closed, issues to make sure somebody else hasn't already
reported the issue. Please try to include as much information as you can. Details like these are incredibly useful:

- A reproducible test case or series of steps
- The version of our code being used (semver)
- Any modifications you've made relevant to the bug
- Anything unusual about your environment or deployment

## Contributing via Pull Requests

Contributions via pull requests are much appreciated. Before sending us a pull request, please ensure that:

1. You are working against the latest source on the _main_ branch.
2. You check existing open, and recently merged, pull requests to make sure someone else hasn't addressed the problem already.
3. You open an issue to discuss any significant work - we would hate for your time to be wasted.

To send us a pull request, please:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Modify the source; please focus on the specific change you are contributing. If you also reformat all the code, it will be hard for us to focus on your change.
3. Run `task build` to ensure everything builds and tests correctly.
   > This will execute all necessary verification `verification`, `build`, `test`, `audit`.
4. Commit to your fork on a new branch using [conventional commit messages](#commits).
5. Send us a pull request, answering any default questions in the pull request template.
6. Pay attention to any automated CI failures reported in the pull request, and stay involved in the conversation.

GitHub provides additional documentation on [forking a repository](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) and
[creating a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request/).

#### Commit Messages

By default we have enabled the commit-msg hook via [husky](https://typicode.github.io/husky/) which comes installed by default when you first run `npm ci`. We are enforcing the convention described in [conventionalcommits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) by default for the commit messages to help make the collaboration between team members transparent and consistent. If your commit messages do not follow this convention, you won't be able to commit your changes from your local machine. Check the example below:
_WRONG COMMIT MESSAGE_

```bash
> git commit -m "foo: this will fail"

> cdk-cicd-wrapper@1.2.3 commitlint
> commitlint --edit

⧗   input: foo: this will fail
✖   type must be one of [build, chore, ci, docs, feat, fix, perf, refactor, revert, style, test] [type-enum]

✖   found 1 problems, 0 warnings
ⓘ   Get help: https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint/#what-is-commitlint

husky - commit-msg hook exited with code 1 (error)
```

_CORRECT COMMIT MESSAGE_

```bash
> git commit -m "docs: updated README.md with better instructions for the commit-msg hook"

> cdk-cicd-wrapper@1.2.3 commitlint
> commitlint --edit .git/COMMIT_EDITMSG

[feat/developer-tools 24192d7] docs: updated README.md with better instructions for the commit-msg hook
 1 file changed, 1 insertion(+), 1 deletion(-)
```

## Commits

This package utilizes [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) and as such all commit messages will need to adopt this format. A `commit-msg` hook is installed as part of this package to enforce correct commit message structure and will be run anytime a `git commit ...` is executed.

[Commitizen](https://github.com/commitizen/cz-cli) has been installed for your convenience which provides a guided UI
for committing changes. To commit your changes run the following commands:

```bash
git add -A # stage your changes
npx cz # launch commitizen
```

An interactive UI will be displayed which you can follow to get your change committed.

Package versioning is determined based on the semantic commit and as such it is very important this format is followed. A PR checker will also run to ensure the format of your commit message is compliant.

## Finding contributions to work on

Looking at the existing issues is a great way to find something to contribute on. As our projects, by default, use the default GitHub issue labels (enhancement/bug/duplicate/help wanted/invalid/question/wontfix), looking at any 'help wanted' issues is a great place to start.

## Code of Conduct

This project has adopted the [Amazon Open Source Code of Conduct](https://aws.github.io/code-of-conduct).
For more information see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://aws.github.io/code-of-conduct-faq) or contact
<opensource-codeofconduct@amazon.com> with any additional questions or comments.

## Security issue notifications

If you discover a potential security issue in this project we ask that you notify AWS/Amazon Security via our [vulnerability reporting page](http://aws.amazon.com/security/vulnerability-reporting/). Please do **not** create a public github issue.

## Licensing

See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/cdklabs/cdk-cicd-wrapper/blob/main/LICENSE.md) file for our project's licensing. We will ask you to confirm the licensing of your contribution.

We may ask you to sign a [Contributor License Agreement (CLA)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contributor_License_Agreement) for larger changes.

## Working with documentation

The documentation for the CDK CI/CD Wrapper Core is stored under the docs/ (index file: index.md) and is designed to be viewed as an MkDocs html site. Before heading to the documentation we highly recommend you:

test

- Run the build docs script `task docs` using you UNIX cli
- Start the local mkdocs webserver to view locally the ConfigBuilder documentation site with the `task docs:local` command; the documentation will then be available at <http://localhost:8000>

## Testing Packages locally

This section explains how you can run local versions of the {{ project_name }} packages that you have made changes to.
You would typically do this when testing new features or fixes that you are trying to contribute to this project.

### Prerequisite

- An AWS account available for testing with Administrator access.
- Mac OS / Cloud9 with Ubuntu Server 22.04 LTS Platform
- Bash/ZSH terminal
- Task installed using the [installation guide](https://taskfile.dev/installation/)
- Maven installed depending on your OS:
  - [Linux](https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi)
  - [macOs via Homebrew](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/maven)
- aws-cli v2 [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html)
- AWS credentials and profiles for each environment under ~/.aws/config [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html)

### First steps

Configure the following environment variables.

|Name|Description|Required|Default|Example|CreateIfNotExisting|
|----|-----------|---|---|----|----|
|AWS_PROFILE|[AWS Profile](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkref/latest/guide/file-format.html#file-format-profile) to use for interacting with the AWS account. This profile is used to create an AWS CodeArtifact to host the {{ project_name }} packages, while the version is not publicly available. | true | | 123456789012 | false |
| DOMAIN     | AWS CodeArtifact Domain name to use     | true | cdk-cicd-wrapper | | true |
| REPOSITORY | AWS CodeArtifact repository name to use | true | cdk-cicd-wrapper | | true |
| SECRET_ID  | AWS SecretManager Secret name to publish to login token. This token will be used by the {{ project_name }} pipeline to be able to pull the packages at the Synth stage. | true | cdk-cicd-wrapper | | true |

The values can be placed into a `.env` file in the root of the project as well, e.g:

```bash
AWS_PROFILE=my-aws-profile
DOMAIN=cdk-cicd-wrapper
REPOSITORY=cdk-cicd-wrapper
SECRET_ID=codeartifact-secret-id
```

### Checkout and initialize the code repository

You can clone the repository from [GitHub](https://github.com/cdklabs/cdk-cicd-wrapper/).

Execute the `task init` command.

### Publish the CDK CI/CD packages into AWS CodeArtifact

#### Login to CodeArtifact

It is highly recommended to set up a separate AWS CodeArtifact for testing and developing the {{ project_name }}.
With a single ```task codeartifact:login``` command you can login to the AWS CodeArtifact.
In case the AWS CodeArtifact Domain or Repository are not existing, then it creates it based on the provided DOMAIN, REPOSITORY.

The created AWS CodeArtifact Domain and Repository can be deleted with the `task codeartifact:repository:delete` command.

**Note**
The command might fail with message like `exit status 255` or similar. This means your AWS Session has expired.

#### Publish

The {{ project_name }} packages can be publish with the `task codeartifact:publish` command.

This command unpublish the previous package in cases where the package version has not been changed.

### Use the packages from AWS CodeArtifact

The {{ project_name }} packages can be added to any CDK project from the AWS CodeArtifact with the `npm install --save @cdklabs/cdk-cicd-wrapper @cdklabs/cdk-cicd-wrapper-cli`. Then you can follow the [Getting Started](../getting_started/index.md) Guide.

### Use a sample app for development

The repository comes with a `samples` folder that host example projects to understand the benefit of the {{ project_name }}.

The available samples can be listed, with the `task samples:list` command.
Set the `SAMPLE_APP` environment variable name as the folder is called inside the sample folder.
Once you've selected a sample, that you'd like to use as baseline you need to then go ahead and initialize a project based on that running the following commands:

```bash
export SAMPLE_APP=cdk-ts-example;
task samples:dev:init
```

The last command creates the `development/project` temporarily folder and initialize the project with [Projen](https://projen.io/).

#### Configure environment variables for the sample application

The environment variables listed on the [Variables](../developer_guides/variables.md) page.
These variables can be included into the `.env` file in either the root or in the `development/project` folder.

The requirements for the samples projects can be different, so check the **README.md** file of the sample application for more details.

You can verify the detected configuration with the `task samples:dev:info`. This is recommended if you are managing multiple AWS accounts.

#### Bootstrap the accounts

The accounts must be bootstrapped prior to the first deployment.
You can execute it with the `task samples:dev:bootstrap`.

#### Update the cdk-cicd-wrapper libraries in the development

You can update the packages with the `task samples:dev:update` command that ensures the latest {{ project_name }} is used.

#### Deploy the pipeline to the account

You can deploy the pipelines from the development folder with the `task samples:dev:deploy` command.

#### Push the sources of the sample application up to the generated repository AWS CodeCommit

You can push the changes made into the sample from the folder with the `task samples:dev:git:push`

#### Deploy workbench stacks

The workbench stacks can be deployed with the `task samples:dev:workbench:deploy`.

#### Do development iteration

You can test your changes in the {{ project_name }} simply with calling the `task samples:dev:loop`.

## FAQ
