README.md, before:

# Welcome to the CI/CD Wrapper

The CI/CD Wrapper gives you an easy way to deliver your CDK applications like a PRO.
This repository contain all the construct provided and used to build, test and deliver the CDK Applications through multiple stages, and AWS accounts to have high level of controlle over your Software Delivery pipelines.

The documentation for the {{ project_name }} Core is stored under the docs/ (index file: index.md) and is designed to be viewed as an MkDocs html site. Before heading to the documentation we highly recommend you:

- Run the build docs script `./scripts/build-docs` using you UNIX cli
- Start the local mkdocs webserver to view locally the ConfigBuilder documentation site with the `mkdocs serve` command; the documentation will then be available at https://localhost:8000

## Intended usage

You should not fork this repository and expect to reproduce the same in your AWS Accounts, this repository is only used for preparing, testing and shipping all the packages used by the {{ project_name }}. Using the {{ project_name }} Core brings you the following benefits:

- :white_check_mark: Automated Open Source License checking (we have provided a list of licenses which you don't want to have them present in your PRODUCTION workloads)
- :white_check_mark: Pre/Post deploy hooks during the deployment in each of the stages (DEV/INT/PROD)
  - :white_check_mark: PRE -> Unit Tests
  - :white_check_mark: POST -> Functional Tests, Load Testing
- :white_check_mark: Flexible definition of stages, the default (DEV/INT/PROD) stages can be extended with new custom stages like EXP.
- :white_check_mark: Stacks deployment can be specified for each stages separately
- :white_check_mark: Customizable CI steps to meet project requirements
- :white_check_mark: Centrally store compliance logs in S3 Buckets which are pre-configured on a per-stage/environment basis
- :white_check_mark: Build Lambda Layers for Python and scan dependencies in the CI/CD (in case of CVE findings, block the pipeline)

## Security

See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md#security-issue-notifications) for more information.

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache-2.0 License.

## Requirements

You need to have the following dependencies in place:

- AWS Account (RES/DEV/INT/PROD)
- Mac OS / Cloud9 with Ubuntu Server 22.04 LTS Platform in RES Account
- Bash/ZSH terminal
- Docker version 24.0.x
- aws-cli v2 [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html)
- AWS credentials and profiles for each environment under ~/.aws/config [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html)
- Node v18.17._ && NPM v10.2._
- jq command line JSON processor jq-1.5

For developing Python Lambdas you need to have the following dependencies additionally:

- Python >= 3.11
- Pipenv 2023.\* [here](https://pipenv.pypa.io/en/latest/)

## Debugging

\_\_Fill_what_is_missing_by_explaining here the debugging of the packages after the installation

## Use cases

The {{ project_name }} Core is the next step on road to standardize and simplify the multi-stage CI/CD process that the successful {{ project_name }} started. Thus the use cases for the {{ project_name }} Core are the same as for the {{ project_name }}.

- Multi staged CI/CD pipeline for IaaC projects

On top of that the {{ project_name }} Core has arbitrary scripts that can be leveraged in any projects involving TypeScript, NPM, and/or Python.

- License validation
- License header management on source files


## License Notes
Although this repository is released under the Apache-2.0 license, its license validation functionality
use the third party `jackspeak` project. The `jackspeak` project's licensing includes the BlueOak-1.0.0 license.

Although this repository is released under the Apache-2.0 license, its license validation functionality
use the third party `path-scurry` project. The `path-scurry` project's licensing includes the BlueOak-1.0.0 license.

Commit message:

feat: introduce projen and task support (#3)
* chore: Initial version upload

* chore: working on the release process

* chore: test githook

* fix: upgraded eslint-tree version to remove console warning messages

* chore: change Github Workflow runner to ubuntu-latest

* chore: use public NPM registry to fetch dependencies

* feat: include sandbox deployment

* chore: remove screenshot image

* chore: update readme and replace project name placeholder

* chore: created taskfile for codeartifact deploy to enable proper testing

* chore: commit before reharsal of the documentation

* feat: include working version of the sample apps

* chore: save refactings

* chore: save the refactorings

* chore: remove outdated documantation

* chore: upgrade dependencies

* chore: add projin upgrade task

* chore: working on the projen submodule to support the samples

* chore: include sandbox

* chore: the README.md

* chore: include sandbox call into the projen component

* chore: update repository name

* chore: the README.md

* fix: command in contributing

* fix: table of vars for .env

* chore: soem fixes

* fix: docs

* fix: use CDK_QUALIFIER env variable

* chore: include documentation thx Genie

* chore: update documentation

* chore: update samples

* chore: save points

* chore: rename sandbox to workbench

* chore: improvements on projen side

* fix: missing cdk-nag dependency

* chore: more documentation

* fix: getting_started/index.md

* fix: getting_started/index.md

* fix: getting_started/prerequisites.md, getting_started/projen.md, projen_with_taskfile.md

* chore: prep for release

* chore: self mutation

Signed-off-by: github-actions <github-actions@github.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: github-actions <github-actions@github.com>
Co-authored-by: Gezim Musliaj <gmuslia@amazon.de>
Co-authored-by: github-actions <github-actions@github.com>

README.md, after:

# Welcome to the CDK CI/CD Wrapper

The CDK CI/CD Wrapper gives you an easy way to deliver your CDK applications like a pro.
This repository contains all the tools to build, deliver and test any CDK Applications through multiple stages, and AWS accounts to have high level of quality and confidence.

## Use cases

The CDK CI/CD Wrapper is the next step on road to standardize and simplify the multi-stage CI/CD process that the successful [aws-cdk-cicd-boot-sample](https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-cdk-cicd-boot-sample) started. Thus the use cases for the CDK CI/CD Wrapper are the same as for the [aws-cdk-cicd-boot-sample](https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-cdk-cicd-boot-sample).

- Multi staged CI/CD pipeline for IaC projects

On top of that the CDK CI/CD Wrapper has arbitrary scripts that can be leveraged in any projects involving TypeScript, and/or Python.

- CI/CD execution by AWS CodePipeline in VPC, Private VPC with NAT Gateway, or even through an HTTP Proxy
- Security scanning on dependencies and on your project codebase as well
- License management over NPM and Python dependencies
- Support for private NPM registry to safely store your libraries
- Customizable CI/CD pipeline to attach to your CDK applications which comes with built-in dependency injection
- Workbench deployment feature which allows you to develop and experiment your solutions before it is introduced in the delivery pipeline, e.g: deploy and test one or multiple CDK stacks isolated from the ones deployed by the CI/CD pipeline

## Intended usage

You should not fork this repository and expect to reproduce the same in your AWS Accounts, this repository is only used for preparing, testing and shipping all the packages used by the CDK CI/CD Wrapper. Using the CDK CI/CD Wrapper gives you the following benefits:

- :white_check_mark: Automated Open Source License checking (we have provided a list of licenses which you don't want to have them present in your PRODUCTION workloads)
- :white_check_mark: Pre/Post deploy hooks during the deployment in each of the stages (DEV/INT/PROD)
  - :white_check_mark: PRE -> Unit Tests
  - :white_check_mark: POST -> Functional Tests, Load Testing
- :white_check_mark: Flexible definition of stages, the default (DEV/INT/PROD) stages can be extended with new custom stages like EXP.
- :white_check_mark: Stacks deployment can be specified for each stages separately
- :white_check_mark: Customizable CI steps to meet project requirements
- :white_check_mark: Centrally store compliance logs in S3 Buckets which are pre-configured on a per-stage/environment basis
- :white_check_mark: Build Lambda Layers for Python and scan dependencies in the CI/CD (in case of CVE findings, block the pipeline)

## Security

See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md#security-issue-notifications) for more information.

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache-2.0 License.

## Requirements

You need to have the following dependencies in place:

- AWS Account (RES/DEV/INT/PROD)
- Mac OS / Cloud9 with Ubuntu Server 22.04 LTS Platform in RES Account
- Bash/ZSH terminal
- Docker version >= 24.0.x
- aws-cli v2 [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html)
- AWS credentials and profiles for each environment under ~/.aws/config [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-files.html)
- Node >= v18.17._ && NPM >= v10.2._
- jq command line JSON processor jq-1.5

For developing Python Lambdas you need to have the following dependencies additionally:

- Python >= 3.11
- Pipenv 2023.\* [here](https://pipenv.pypa.io/en/latest/)

## Contributors

Thanks goes to these wonderful people ([emoji key](https://allcontributors.org/docs/en/emoji-key)):
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
[![All Contributors](https://img.shields.io/badge/all_contributors-193-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](#contributors-)
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:END -->
